	
	MTHS Waterfall Hike April 17
	Mountain Top Historical Society 
	to:
	Nora Monaco
	04/14/2010 10:44 AM
	Sent by:
	"Express Email Marketing" <mailer_response@emailcounts.com>
	Please respond to info
	Show Details



History:	This message has been forwarded.


MTHS Announces 2010 Hikes and Easy Walks


First Hike Saturday April 17
The Mountain Top Historical Society's first  hike of the season will be 
Saturday, April 17 to some of the area's most beautiful waterfalls.  Nine 
other hikes will follow and for 2010, the Society's schedule will include 
easy walks.   For those who have found some of the hikes too challenging, 
there are now three group walks. Please look at the schedule of hikes 
carefully, and note that some of them have a walking alternative listed.  
It is still important to bring a packed lunch, water, a hat, bug spray and 
wear appropriate shoes. Walkers will be meeting at the same time and place 
as the hikers, but will be walking for only half a day or less, on 
relatively flat ground.  We look forward to seeing you this year!

April 17 - Waterfall Hike   A combination auto and foot tour of the most 
scenic waterfalls in our area. Meet MTHS Campus, Haines Falls  9:00 AM. 
Return 3:00 P.M. Vertical Rise: Several short climbs.  Distance: About 3 
miles. Difficulty level: Easy to moderate.

May 15 -- Westkill Mountain   Spectacular views of the Catskills from this 
mountain on the Western Edge of the Devil's Path. Meet: Flagpole on Route 
42 in Westkill. 9:00 AM. Return 5:00 PM. Vertical Rise 1750 ft. Distance 7 
miles. Difficulty level: Moderate to difficult.  * Easy Walk Alternative: 
Walk 1 mile to Diamond Notch Falls. Return.

June 5 - National Trails Day   North Point Extensive views of the Hudson 
Valley and the Eastern Escarpment including classic sites that inspired 
the Hudson River School. Meet: MTHS Campus,  Haines Falls, 9:00 A.M. 
Return 5:00 P.M. Distance 6 miles. Vertical Rise: 870 ft. Difficulty: 
Moderate with a steep scramble. * Easy Walk Alternative: Walk around the 
perimeter of North --South Lake. Approximately  2 miles. Stay and enjoy 
boating and beaching.

June 26 - Bonticou Crag and Surrounding Region   Beautiful views to the 
west of the Shawangunks. Meet: Parking lot at Thruway Exit 18 New Paltz 
8:30 A.M. Return 5:00 P.M. Additional afternoon activities to be 
determined perhaps Table Rocks. Vertical Rise 750 ft. Distance: 6 miles. 
Difficulty level: Moderate with an optional rock scramble. (The Mohonk 
Preserve charges a per-person fee for using this trail. Hikers will be 
responsible for the fee.)

July 10 - Huntersfield Mountain and Pratt's Rock   In the morning climb 
Huntersfield and enjoy views looking South from this peak on the Northern 
edge of the Catskills. At noon, we will drive to Pratt's Rock where we 
will eat our lunches and climb to the rocks carvings commemorating Zadock 
Pratt. Meet: Ashland Town Hall Parking Lot (on Route 23 Ashland) 9:00 A.M. 
Return 3:30 P.M. Vertical Rise 600 ft. 3 1/2 miles. Difficulty level: Easy 
to moderate.  *Easy Walk Alternative: Gradual uphill walk for 1 mile to 
beautiful views of the northern Catskills and return.

July 24 -- Traps to Gertrude's Nose   Beautiful views open continuously as 
we walk along the narrow edge. Meet: Parking lot at Thruway Exit 18 New 
Paltz. 8:30 A.M. Return 5:00 P.M. Distance 8 1/2 miles, vertical rise 800 
ft. Difficulty level: Moderate.

August 7 -- Rip's Ledge   We will walk through Sleepy Hollow, past the 
site of the Rip Van Winkle House and  ledges where Rip is said to have 
spent his 20 year slumber. Meet: MTHS Campus, Haines Falls 9:00 A.M. 
Return  5:00 P.M. Difficulty level: Difficult due to some bushwhacking. 
Due to the unusual nature of this hike, participants should call or check 
the society's web site (http://www.mths.org) for possible updates.

August 14 - To be determined by the interests of the participants.

September 11 - Hudson River Ramble Hike: Two Options in Kaaterskill 
Clove    A choice this time between following "The Road that Couldn't be 
Built" -- George Harding's road from Palenville to the Hotel Kaaterskill 
with an option to walk along the North Rim of Kaaterskill Clove, or Views 
of Kaaterskill Clove -- the classic scenery of Sunset Rock and Inspiration 
Point. With good coordination (call that luck) the two groups should meet 
at the Hotel Kaaterskill site to eat their lunch and explore the site.  
Meet: MTHS Campus 9:00 A.M. Return 1:00 or 4:00 P.M.depending on the 
option chosen.

October 2 - Slide, Cornell and Wittenberg   Vigorous hike in the hopefully 
cooler days of our hiking season. Spectacular views at several stops along 
the way. Meet:  Intersection of Rt. 28 and 47 in Big Indian 8:00 A.M. 
Return 6:00 P.M. Vertical Rise 2500 ft. distance, 8 miles. One of our most 
challenging hikes. Difficult.

MTHS does not require membership for hike participation. We do, however, 
request that you register for each hike. Participants can register by 
going to the Contact Us page at www.mths.org or calling 518-589-6657.  
Please tell us your name, phone number and total in your party. The 
schedule is subject to change. Call Bob (518) 734-9701 or Larry (518) 
734-4264 or check mths.org. Notification of changes, including 
cancellations due to weather, will be made up to the day of any given hike.




© 2010 Mountain Top Historical Society
This email was sent by Mountain Top Historical Society, Box 263, 5132 
Route 23A, Haines Falls, NY 12436, using Express Email Marketing. You were 
added to this list as nmonaco@csc.com on 4/14/2010.
Express Email Marketing supports permission-based email marketing. You can 
change your preferences or unsubscribe from this mailing list at any time.
